if you want to find the greatest number
and variety of animals that communicate
with light you have to go to the darkest
place on earth somewhere far beyond the
reach of the sun's rays we're human
beings hardly ever go to the depths of
the ocean this is the Johnson sea link
at the front it has an array of remotely
controlled television cameras and
searchlights I'm sitting beside the
pilot in the transparent bubble in the
middle and the whole craft is massively
strengthened to withstand the huge
pressures of the depths
as we go down it gets darker and darker
the water is thick with small floating
organisms
at 600 feet the water outside is 20
times atmospheric pressure the
temperature is within a few degrees of
freezing and we're far beyond the reach
of the sunshine so you might think in
such a hostile environment there would
be very few animals living but watch
this the chorus of Lights is being made
by hundreds of small deep-sea creatures
which are flashing in response to my
light
and now if I turn on the lights of the
submersible we may catch a glimpse of
one of these strange deep-sea creatures
as it drifts by the pilot has remote
controls for the camera outside the sub
to search for them in the blackness
this is a comb jelly as big as a
football it's been nicknamed big red but
it has yet to be given a proper name
it's new to science
another new undescribed comb jelly all
those specimens have been brought to the
surface it's only been seen alive for
the windows of deep-sea craft like this
it uses a pair of long retractable
tentacles to catch fish
a jellyfish solo misses two feet across
which in spite of the changes of
pressure sometimes swims quite close to
the surface
[Music]
Gyo mere another comb jelly one that is
surrounded by gauzy skirts
but for the most sensational spectacle
you have to turn the lights of the
submarine off
[Music]
a jellyfish outlined by its own pulsing
illuminations
[Music]
a squid its lights moving as its body
thrums displays like this may serve for
defense or to send messages no one knows
[Music]
and most spectacular of all another
jellyfish with its own amazing rhythmic
flashing system
you